this video is brought to you by
Squarespace
The Last of Us TV show on HBO was one of
the most anticipated TV shows of recent
years based on the hit video game of the
same name The Last of Us follows the
story of Joel and Ellie two survivors in
a post-apocalyptic World ravaged by a
deadly fungal infection
the show garnered a lot of attention for
its high production values talented cast
and faithful adaptation of the game's
story however one of the most
significant aspects of the show is its
representation of queer characters one
of the most prominent gay characters in
The Last of Us is Bill in the game bill
is a loner and an expert in surviving in
this infected World however his past is
revealed to the player through notes and
diary entries scattered throughout the
game where it is revealed that he had a
partner named Frank
who was infected Bill's story is tragic
and his portrayal in the game is
sympathetic and nuanced avoiding the
common stereotypes the queer characters
are often subjected to the TV show
expands on his character's backstory in
episode 3 we see the full story of Bill
and Frank their relationship is depicted
in a heartfelt and authentic manner a
long lasting relationship between two
men who create a sort of paradise for
themselves in the middle of the horrors
of the infected world the show also
explores the trauma that bill
experiences as a result of the idea of
losing Frank because in this apocalyptic
world neither of them could imagine
living without the other but Bill and
Frank are only in one episode a mostly
self-contained episode that particularly
homophobic viewers could skip over
without missing out much but with Ellie
they have no such luxury Ellie is really
the main protagonist of the show she's
not only a well-rounded character with
complex motivations and storylines but
she's also a representation of queer
youth that has been rarely seen in
mainstream media the representation of
Ellie as a queer character in the show
is important because it may help to
normalize queer identities and create a
sense of sympathy and understanding for
queer people among the straight audience
but unlike many queer characters in
media Ellie's sexuality is not a
defining characteristic of her
personality but rather just one aspect
of her identity it is not used as a plot
device or a means to further the story
in a negative way instead her tragically
short relationship with Riley is
portrayed as a natural and beautiful
part of her life and unlike Bill and
Frank whose episode can be skipped over
Ellie's queerness isn't going anywhere
and will only become a more prominent
aspect of the ongoing story in the
second season when she's with Dina by
centering the only real romantic
relationships in the show around Bill
and Frank and Ellie and Riley the show
is pushing back against the idea that
heterosexuality is the only acceptable
form of romantic love so why was I so
annoyed by the online discourse around
the show and I don't mean the get woke
go broke crowd who were Furious that the
show's ratings just kept getting better
and better every week even as it got
gayer and gayer I'm talking about the
people who complained incessantly every
week about spoilers as a gay I've never
much cared for spoilers especially when
it comes to Media about gay people
because there's only one of two possible
endings they live happily ever after or
at least one of them dies not much to
spoil there but the privilege of being
able to have more than two ending
options sure has seeped into the minds
of an awful lot of the mass audience
creating a fungal hive mind chanting no
spoilers no spoilers no spoilers no
spoilers so let's talk about some
spoilers but first how about some
self-promotion and a word from this
video's sponsor Squarespace this video
is brought to you by Squarespace
building a site with Squarespace is a
great way to build your brand and reach
a wider audience whether you're a visual
artist photographer a writer a video
producer or work in any creative field
it's vital to have a site that you can
use to help build your brand on your own
terms Nick and I have had a presence on
social media for a while now and
obviously this channel but with certain
sites looking like they're going the way
of audiences who don't actually care
about spoilers we thought it about time
to make our presence felt away from the
Bird app using Squarespace is incredibly
intuitive and easy to use tools we've
built the James Summerton Channel
website featuring a Blog where Nick and
I write about topics that probably
wouldn't make for a full video a special
section where you can check out preview
chapters of my upcoming novel as well as
check out Nick's novel gentlemen's club
and using squarespace's video hosting
features we're able to give you access
to videos that YouTube made us remove
and spoiler alert you can head to
squarespace.com right now for a free
trial and when you're ready to launch
your site go to squarespace.com James S
that's
j-a-m-e-s-s to save 10 off of your first
purchase of a website or domain
start showing the world how amazing you
are today with Squarespace
[Music]
foreign
the language of spoilers is a relatively
new term though it has roots in
Hollywood culture famously The Simpsons
once depicted a flashback to 1980 with
Homer and Marge leaving a screening of
The Empire Strikes Back while beside a
line of people going into the theater
Homer blunderously remarks wow what an
ending Huda thought Darth Vader was Luke
Skywalker's father oh spoiler alert by
the way Darth Vader is Luke Skywalker's
father and while surely that experience
is annoying the main distinction of this
spoiler is that at no given moment were
you ever expecting there to be a Twist
in the plot this seemingly
straightforward narrative about a Plucky
Farm Boy becoming a space Knight is
flipped on its head Luke Skywalker's
innocent moral values are suddenly
brought into question when the audience
realizes that he is actually derived
from the story's symbol of evil
specifically when it comes to making
Darth Vader Luke's father George Lucas
spent a great deal of time struggling
with not just how to pull this off but
also whether or not he should these
movies were not explicitly made for
children but he deliberately won wanted
them to be accessible to all ages he
worried that if Darth Vader was Luke's
father the children would find that too
frightening but he did want shock factor
to be a huge part of the reveal make no
mistake shock value is a viable literary
tool this was a period of time where
movie trailers in the 1970s would more
or less synopsicize the whole damn movie
first of all the movie script for Empire
Strikes Back did not read that Darth
Vader was Luke's father the only people
who knew the truth were Lucas himself
and director of incursioner almost
immediately before shooting the scene
kirschner pulled Mark Hamill aside and
told him what the script was actually
going to say meanwhile everyone else on
set thought that Hamill was just really
chewing the scenery when he was reacting
to finding out that per the script
Obi-Wan killed his father that's not
true
it seems that this degree of secret
keeping is the only real thing Disney
learned from Lucas's rule book on
building a franchise Empire the Star
Wars franchise in part due to episode
5's Mass cultural shift and what we
could expect out of a Blockbuster movie
has become obsessively rooted in
withholding information from an audience
that now expects to be surprised which
even by episode 7 it was at a point of
ridiculousness Anthony Daniels who
portrays C-3PO in the series remarked
that he had never been on a movie set
with that much secrecy this is an actor
who had been one of the franchise's
first fans who saw illustrations of his
character and instantly fell in love and
yet even he could not be trusted with
the full script as per the structure of
these trilogies there was a lot riding
on Star Wars episode 8 where everybody
was expecting there to be a Twist Rey is
Luke's daughter or Obi-Wan's
granddaughter or a clone of Padme or
related to one of the other petite
brunette women in the franchise snoke
was a clone of the Emperor or Darth
Plagueis him himself Emperor Palpatine's
Sith Master but the twist here is that
there is no twist meanwhile a huge chunk
of the fan base gets pissed off because
it's not the twist that they were
expecting do you want to be shocked by a
Twist or not spoiler alert by the way
Rey doesn't have special parents except
then it got retconned that she did
because JJ Abrams doesn't know how to
write engaging characters in drama so he
substitutes for an arbitrary sense of
mystery but we'll get to that in a
moment yet this hype around spoilers
that followed every new installation of
the Star Wars franchise since the Disney
acquisition was not present during the
prequels in part I assume because they
were prequels and everyone more or less
knew how they would end Lucas was also
doing very little to try and conceal
that Chancellor Palpatine was Darth
Sidious who would become the emperor Ian
McDermott was credited just the same as
he was in episode 6. Lucas wasn't
hinging the entire prequel trilogy
around making the audience speculate who
the emperor was he wanted you to know
what was going on so you could spot his
methods of manipulation on the
characters who were unaware of what what
his plan was which nobody really gives
the credit to McDermott for carrying the
prequels on his back the way he did in
episode 3 we go from Happy helpful
politician to I am the senate in no more
than 10 minutes and somehow it's
completely believable that turning point
in the narration wouldn't have been
possible if Lucas spent the prior four
hours of screen time trying to conceal
who the emperor really was from the
audience this is a case study on why
dramatic irony is still a very relevant
method of building tension because you
don't spend those first two movies
looking for a Twist you get to have a
sense of dredge whenever Palpatine is on
screen you're watching the movie instead
of expecting a shock to happen however
the specific phrasing of spoiler wasn't
present for Darth Vader's Infamous
confession and Empire Strikes Back at
least not in a broadly applicable sense
of cultural awareness and it would have
been much easier to keep away from
spoilers in a world before social media
as a matter of fact the first time that
no spoilers garnished a strong cultural
hold was not for a movie it was for a
book
one of her books
because everything comes back to her
these days this is all her fault spoiler
alert Snape kills Dumbledore now I don't
really have anything to say about her
anymore and I don't want to start a
discourse on her either so I'm not even
gonna put this in the SEO of the video
but for reasons that can only really be
known through a comprehensive historical
understanding of our culture in the late
90s and early 2000s the Harry Potter
series permeated so deeply that it was
an anomaly in publishing that had never
been seen before even before they were
adapted into movies by the time the
sixth book in the franchise the
Half-Blood Prince was leading up to
release the hype was at an unprecedented
level and for those who can read a 500
page book in a matter of hours
like my online boyfriend at the time
fans took to the internet immediately to
find other people to discuss the whole
plot with others who can read that fast
in the process they spoiled one of the
most important narrative redirections in
the entire series when the primary
figure of mentorship is murdered by one
of the longest-running personal
antagonists to the principal protagonist
and by all means doing this was a bit of
a dick move and by all means perhaps
readers should have been a little more
sensitive to those who cannot read so
fast or who cannot for whatever reason
purchase a hardcover book when
pre-orders exceeded the number of
printed copies upon release however
rather than opening a discussion about
when does a new thing stop being new or
where do we create safe spaces to talk
about these new things the word very
quickly became
don't talk about it at all because while
the murder of Dumbledore might not be
the first spoiler it seems to be the
Catalyst for what has become known as
spoiler culture now Snape killing
Dumbledore isn't a bad narrative
decision a good story always has
something to shake up the status quo but
the Legacy around this particular
spoiler quickly became a bit of a joke
in itself regardless of the fact that
there were any number of other mysteries
in the book namely who was the
Half-Blood Prince spoiler alert it was
Snape whether you were at the time a fan
of Harry Potter or not within the fandom
it was as if this detail was the
singular quality of the story that
mattered as if learning this information
outside of experiencing it for yourself
while reading it rendered the entire
plot pointless does it really invalidate
the entire story though since then
spoiler culture has pushed us into this
kind of fervent tight-lipped secrecy how
do we enjoy media if the purpose is to
just consume it as fast as possible to
avoid spoilers where audiences refuse to
engage in any discussion about media for
fear of having it spoiled conversely
what if audiences sole method of
engaging with media is to speculate
about what may happen I bet it's
Mephisto what happens to the rest of the
filmmaking process if a project is
exclusively constructed around the
media's ability to generate hype around
secrets and twists how can we discuss a
fandom's desire for early birds wanting
to discuss and analyze their media with
others who have not yet seen this media
wanting that same engagement but without
wanting spoilers what about media for
which there's nothing really to spoil
but audiences still act like Minor
Details of a story are spoilers that
ruin everything we've got people
complaining about spoilers for Dune and
Lord of the Rings and any other range of
movies or books that have been available
for public consumption for decades
what's next complaining about spoiling
that Odysseus reconnects with Penelope
spoiler alert in some versions of the
myth he kills her does this mean there's
no point in reading the Odyssey
classical birds and writers used to
include a prologue to their work that
explicitly stated what happens at the
end of the story and yet they crafted
stories so renowned that they outlasted
regimes kingdoms Empires and entire
civilizations having a shift in
narrative Direction seems to be a staple
of media my issue is with spoilers not
with twists or turning points it used to
be that a spoiler referred to the act of
sharing information in a story that is
better left being experienced firsthand
now it seems that spoilers refers to
elements of the story itself which
provided a broad enough definition could
be nearly anything about a movie spoiler
alert turns out that Dr Hannibal Lecter
is actually a Serial killing cannibal
spoiler alert the Titanic sinks spoiler
alert Wednesday has a dance scene this
is setting a very restrictive culture
for people who want to publicly engage
with the media they enjoy and I can't
quite tell apart the chicken from the
egg here our audiences suffering such a
weak narrative Constitution that there
is an anaphylactic reaction to any
component of a story that they have not
experienced firsthand yet or is our
climate of corporate generated media
becoming so dependent on formulas of
narrative twists that they have nothing
to offer audiences if they're not
dangling a mystery box over their head
on a string
[Music]
narratively in film there are two
different ways to describe the way that
a story can suddenly change a plot twist
and a turning point people these days
seem to think that they're the same
thing and scream spoilers if you so much
as mentioned the slightest plot
progression a plot twist is an
unexpected and dramatic shift in the
storyline that alters the viewers
understanding of the plot it can come in
many forms such as a character's sudden
betrayal the revelation of a hidden
motive the introduction of a previously
unknown character or the death of a
previously well plot armored character
plot twists can be used to create
suspense challenge the audience's
expectations or provide a surprising
ending when they're done well in
contrast a turning point is a
significant moment in the story that
changes the direction of the narrative
but doesn't change everything about the
movie strictly in literary terms a
turning point is when the character
makes a decision that alters the
direction of the story in a way that
cannot be reversed this is an important
element of dramatic tragedy where a
character's direct action prevents this
story from ending on a happy note
spoiler alert Romeo kills tibult while
both plot twists and turning points can
be important elements in storytelling
they serve different functions and have
different effects on the audience plot
twists are often used to create a moment
of surprise or shock they can come out
of nowhere and in many cases remove a
lot of the rewatchability value of the
film if the whole movie is built on the
twist why bother watching it again
turning points on the other hand are
almost always necessary to advance the
plot and change the direction of the
story when needed another key difference
between plot twists and turning points
is the timing of their occurrence plot
twists usually occur towards the end of
the story often at the climax or
resolution and are designed to shock the
audience and hopefully have them leaving
the cinema talking about it there's an
old adage in filmmaking the quality of
the movie doesn't matter only the
quality of the last 15 minutes because
that's what people will remember turning
points on the other hand can occur at
any time in the story and are used to
create momentum and tension more often
than not they occur within the first
half of the movie for instance spoiler
alert the shooting of Vito Corleone is a
pivotal moment in Francis Ford Coppola's
Masterpiece The Godfather the scene
takes place pretty early on in the film
and sets the stage for the rest of the
story the shooting itself is abrupt and
shocking it's a turning point for the
characters because it marks a shift in
power dynamics within the Corleone
family Vito is the head of the family
and has always been in charge however
after he is shot and left critically
injured his eldest son Sunny steps up to
take control this leads to a bit of a
power struggle between sunny and Vito's
youngest son Michael who is at first
first reluctant to get involved in the
family business Sunny's aggressive
leadership style though leads to a war
with rival families that eventually
leads to him being killed Michael's
eventual takeover of the family having
all of his enemies assassinated on the
day of his baby's christening sets him
on a path of corruption and violence
that we follow throughout the Godfather
Part 2 and part three I've seen way too
many people online complain about having
the Godfather spoiled for them when the
movie's quality has absolutely nothing
to do with turning points in the film
there's a reason this film is held up as
one of the quintessential masterpieces
of Cinema there's far more to watch it
for than just surprises contrast that
with the 2012 horror movie Cabin in the
Woods the film sets up the classic
horror movie tropes of a group of
college students heading out to a remote
Cabin in the Woods for a weekend of fun
only to encounter a mysterious and
terrifying force waiting for them
however spoiler alert the entire
scenario has been staged by a group of
technicians working for a mysterious
organization the horror is not real but
rather a simulated experience design to
appease ancient gods while this twist is
a clever subversion of horror movie
conventions it's such a 180
that there's not much you get out of it
watching it a second time the first half
of the movie is a straightforward horror
film with a suspenseful atmosphere of
fun dialogue more character development
for the ones who usually get killed off
first and a strong sense of dread the
office workers leave the audience
wondering what's going on but they
aren't that distracting from the
deliberately paint by numbers plot
however once the twist is revealed the
tone of the film becomes a much more
comedic meta commentary about horror
movies in general while the shift can be
entertaining it also means that the
audience is no longer invested in the
horrific elements of the film or the
characters it had been setting up the
sense of dread is replaced by a sense of
Detachment knowing the ending when you
watch The Godfather does not ruin the
experience of watching The Godfather but
knowing the ending of Cabin in the Woods
why even bother watching it now plot
twists aren't evil a well-executed plot
twist can keep the audience guessing and
on the edge of their seats this is
because it creates uncertainty about the
outcome of the story which creates a
sense of anticipation and excitement
certainly there are many movies with
plot twists that are absolutely worth
re-watching we need to keep in mind that
it's the twist that becomes spoiled the
twist is not the spoiler however the
issue is when a spoiled twist spoils the
whole movie it can detract from the
overall experience of the story and
leave the audience feeling disappointed
or cheated what's the point of an
audience getting emotionally invested in
a story if they are made aware of the
only worthwhile element of that story
another problem comes if the twist
undermines the logic or consistency of
the world if the twist contradicts
established facts or character traits it
feels contrived and leaves the audience
feeling unsatisfied for example if a
character is actually another character
who the fans have already guessed is
that character but whom the filmmakers
swear up and down is not that character
spoiler alert my name
is Kai that's just
lying like some Creator whose only real
creative trick is to establish
mysterious contrivances that keep the
audience guessing and whose panicked
response to audiences figuring it out is
to insist that they're wrong in order to
give them a reason to buy a ticket so
when does a spoiler not spoil a movie I
used the example from The Empire Strikes
Back where the famous twist has reached
the point where most children have heard
the line referenced before they've ever
seen the movie I can't think of many
ways that someone could go into watching
episode 5 completely blind in this day
and age and yet this film is frequently
held up as a science fiction Masterpiece
it should be a demonstration that
knowing what happens in a movie doesn't
mean that the movie itself is spoiled
how does this spoiler continue to
function as a successful twist first of
all nobody was expecting there to be a
Twist in the first place there's so
little of the movie's content that
hinges on the relationship between Darth
Vader and Luke Skywalker even up until
the point where Darth Vader spoils
Luke's parentage we're under the
impression that he wants to capture Luke
to bring him to the emperor the prior
hour and a half is spent embroiled in a
discussion about military operations
against an overwhelming Force poignant
and subversive philosophical debate and
acute political discourse it's difficult
to spoil a movie when the highlights of
the story are contained in debate and
conversation Darth Vader's Revelation is
a fantastic five minutes out of another
fantastic two hours what specifically
makes this twist so good is that the
twist is more significant for the
characters the characters affected by
the plot are entirely invested with why
this Revelation is so significant either
directly or by proxy not only does the
audience know what emotional effect this
has upon Luke but we also see Darth
Vader now as a human figure rather than
the more machine than man perspective of
him take a look at some of the other
most infamous twists in Hollywood
history such as Alfred Hitchcock's
Psycho spoiler alert Norman Bates
dresses up like his dead mother and
murders people and then blames it on his
mom nearly everybody knows this the
movie had a shot for shot remake in 1998
in a prequel TV series the movie still
remains one of the Masterworks of
cinematic horror and it's not because
you're so shocked when you learn what
happens it's a combination of tension
performance and some of the most iconic
melding of visuals and Orchestra ever
put to film while Norman Bates being the
Killer is certainly a shock it is not
the only twist in the movie audiences of
the day would have even said that it was
a far cry from the primary twist the
character of Marion crane is portrayed
by Janet Lee a close approximation would
be like comparing her to Margot Robbie
today a Hollywood actress at the peak of
the industry and although she is in all
the marketing she's killed 40 minutes
into the movie another reason why the
twist doesn't spoil the movie is that it
adds to the overall atmosphere from the
beginning psycho is a movie that is
designed to make audiences feel uneasy
the black and white cinematography the
Eerie score the unconventional structure
all work together to create a sense of
foreboding the Revelation that Norman
Bates is the killer only adds to this
atmosphere of dread by the time the
twist comes audiences are already on the
edge of their seats and they're ready to
be shocked the fact that mild-mannered
baits is capable of such violence is all
the more horrifying because of the mood
that has been established throughout the
whole film the film spends its duration
earning that unsettling payoff it's a
natural conclusion to the story that is
supported by the events of the film
Hitchcock carefully plants Clues and red
herrings throughout the movie leading
audiences down One path before revealing
the truth it's not a mystery for
mystery's sake there are no lingering
questions dangling over the audience's
head in a false belief that this is the
only way to engage the audience
Hitchcock's soft touch invites the
audience into the mystery when the
mystery is solved it means as much to
the audience as it does to the
characters the twist for the sake of a
Twist came about in recent years thanks
to in most part two filmmakers M Night
Shyamalan and JJ Abrams Shyamalan became
famous for his last minute twist in the
sixth sense when the audience discovers
that Bruce Willis was dead the entire
time spoiler alert what's unfortunate is
that M Night Shyamalan got so big off of
this movie that he spent his entire
career trying to recreate that famous
twist that put him on the map though
nunner is renowned for twists as JJ
Abrams and his goddamn Mystery Box the
mystery box is a literal box that Abrams
purchased from a magic shop when he was
a child allegedly it contained various
magic tricks and props but he never
opened it the Box became a symbol for
him of the power of mystery and the
unknown honestly this story sounds just
about as contrived as most of his movies
it's got that kind of feel-good
sensibility that you'd expect to find in
80 Spielberg movies and their CopyCats
in filmmaking the mystery box concept
refers to the use of mystery and
ambiguity to create interest and
suspense in a story even if the writer
doesn't know what the end result will be
Abrams has stated that he believes in
the power of mystery and that
withholding information can create a
sense of anticipation and excitement for
the audience that he's more interested
in questions than answers most
notoriously he used this box I
mean mystery box when he took over the
Star Wars series after Disney bought the
rights for my very depressed George
Lucas in JJ's sequel Trilogy the use of
the mystery box was criticized for being
overused and poorly executed for example
in the force awakens he introduced new
characters like Rey and kylo Ren and
deliberately left as many questions
unanswered about them as possible while
this initially created excitement and
speculation among fans it also left many
feeling unsatisfied and frustrated when
those questions were either left
unanswered or answered unsatisfactorily
by the end of the mess known as the rise
of Skywalker by that point many critics
who lauded episode 7 argued that the use
of the mystery box was used as a crutch
to cover up the plot holes or weak
writing rather than being an integral
part of the storytelling the lack of
coherent planning and consistent vision
for the sequel Trilogy also contributed
to the perception that the mystery box
was being overused as a gimmick rather
than as a legitimate storytelling device
and they did absolutely everything they
could to protect their precious twists
and spoilers Han dying wasn't really a
twist for anyone who knows anything
about Harrison Ford's career and his
opinion of Star Wars but it shocked
plenty of people nonetheless the emperor
still being alive was a nonsensical
spoiler that they even used in the
advertising for episode nine but the
fact that Rey was his granddaughter was
kept very close to the chest it screams
that a filmmaker has little faith in
their work that they hinge your
enjoyment of the movie entirely on a
Twist leaving you shocked but what's
left after the shock it didn't take
audiences many repeat visits to the
theater to come to the conclusion that
episode 7 kinda
lacked anything other than Nostalgia on
your first viewing you get the rush of
feelings but rushing emotions give
diminishing returns this is the same
reason why many people who may have at
one point named their pets after
characters from the MCU are now avoiding
anything with that logo on it like the
plague you get to a point where you
think am I actually excited for this
movie or do I just do this out of habit
which leads some people to then question
if I divest from this media am I
actually missing anything that's one
thing for Marvel movies but provided how
staggeringly successful they are
were almost all of Hollywood is doing
everything it can to cash in on that
success by doing the same thing what
happens to the quality of our media when
the largest media producers are only
gauging the quality of media on whether
there's something they can conceal
from their paying audience
[Music]
some people are just naturally good at
picking up on hints and cues in either a
movie itself or indications within the
ads if our entire cinematic creative
process is constructed around creating
surprises for the audience then there
isn't going to be a whole lot of ways
for them to connect with say a Marvel
movie I've seen a relatively recent
shift where many people have simply
stopped engaging with movies and may
avoid movies with straightforward plots
because they feel that there's no point
in watching them if there's no twist
never mind when it comes to say movies
like everything everywhere all at once
or the menu or even Dungeons and Dragons
there's nothing really to spoil even
take a look at Mega successful smashes
like Avatar 2 and the Super Mario
Brothers movie there's no Grand
Revelations here one is a Showcase of
CGI spectacle and the other is a love
letter to a beloved video game franchise
that was done dirty in the early 90s as
far as spoilers go any surprises about
these movies or either things you cannot
really describe spoiler alert hot dog
fingers or our turning points that occur
within the first third of the movie with
each of these examples the reason you're
meant to watch it is to watch it in fact
one of the most surprising things to me
about the menu and maybe this is because
of my obsession with Hannibal is that
the movie isn't about fine dining
cannibalism spoiler alert it's
not about
fine dining cannibalism
the real spoilers for that movie are
about the themes and Concepts that drive
the plot because the way that film
expresses those ideas are so detailed
and nuanced that they cannot be
expressed in any singular instance
without context and in fact even if I
read you a synopsis of the movie I'd
still tell you to go see it because
there's just so much about it that can't
be put into words like they say the
living is in the journey not the
destination
which
I would really like to see a return to
that sensibility because I'm starting to
see this process of generating hype
around secrecy as a contributing factor
to an overall dip in quality in media in
general namely in Disney but Disney owns
half Hollywood by now so even just a
decline in that corporation's output is
a substantial chunk and the corner
cutting is tempting why do you need to
put your best foot forward when you can
get Butts into theater seats by
promising a grand twist that you must
see this movie to experience especially
if you need to see this twist in order
to have any hope of understanding what's
going to happen in future projects it's
the interconnected Universe declining
quality pipeline this isn't even
something connected exclusively to
superhero movies or other specific genre
Blockbusters the Batman was a murder
mystery built around the question of who
is the Riddler spoiler alert it was Paul
Dano he was on the Press tour the
surprising parts of the movie were the
performances from Pattinson and Kravitz
If This Were a Disney project or
anything directed by JJ Abrams I can
definitely see it not being out of the
question for them to keep Dano hidden
inside of a locked trunk between the
last day of filming and the premiere and
based on some of his interviews he might
even be into that if the executives on a
project believe that there is nothing
more to this media Beyond how it can
shock and surprise an audience why do
they need to spend a buck on anything
else quantumania certainly took a
critical hit for just not paying
attention to visuals in recent memory
most of Disney's new projects are shot
on special projection screens to make
sure no spoilers get leaked however
actors can't interact with the set and
there's so much light being projected
that it's a nightmare for
cinematographers and it just looks bad
and while we may accept that there is an
entire collection of films whose
executive oversight does not believe
that they have anything to offer but 200
million dollar surprises unfortunately
this bleeds out into other movies some
as I mentioned do not really have
anything to spoil in the first place but
people still may act like they do but
others as I mentioned are based on
existing media that has been publicly
available for some time I'm sorry but
Dune has been absent the 60s if you care
enough about the property it shouldn't
be a surprise to you that Paul ends up
starting a holy war and is kind of
depicted as a massive jerk no not
spoiler alert if it matters that much to
you read the damn book because people
who have read it are going to want to
talk about it the whole universe isn't
going to set classic movies and books on
the shelf and wait for you to have time
to get around to it because other people
have there are three ways to avoid
spoilers you can keep away from online
spaces until you've consumed the media
you want or you can selectively choose
to engage with media which is not
constructed around spoilers or you can
accept spoilers and continue to engage
with media anyway unfortunately there is
no real way to avoid spoilers while
existing in online spaces there's always
going to be some jerk who somehow found
a leaked script for a new episode of a
Star Wars streaming series and blabbers
about it on Twitter while there is some
responsibility for people to not leak
any plot twists in a movie other people
really can't be held accountable for
your emotional reaction to spoiled
content and on the flip side there needs
to be a greater effort on the creative
side to generate content for which
spoilers are irrelevant and no you don't
need to make a simple straightforward
movie to really do that in recent memory
knives out and its sequel Glass Onion
demonstrate that you can make an
engaging murder mystery where it's
abundantly clear who the Killer is from
the very beginning but even if you call
the shots that who's the murderer part
of it isn't the reason why you're meant
to be watching these movies are about
rich people being horrible people the
mystery is just a vessel for that even
the mystery box the idea of deliberately
holding a mystery over the audience's
head isn't an inherently tainted
narrative trick if you know how to make
a good movie you can pull it off one of
the quintessentially great movies of all
time has a mystery box the whole point
of Citizen Kane is what is rosebud the
final word of the titular Charles Foster
Kane it takes the entire movie to figure
out what it is and in fact these days
most people know what Rosebud is before
they even see the movie spoiler alert
it's his childhood sled and if you think
for a second that that spoils the movie
and therefore there's no point in
watching it then quite frankly it's your
loss but knowing this doesn't speak to
the reasons why this film is held up as
an Exemplar of excellence in cinema
knowing the name of the sled doesn't
answer the question why should I watch
this movie it's a movie about innocence
a fall from grace and the corruptive
power of success the sled has nothing to
do with it and everything to do with it
and you don't know how that's possible
unless you watch the whole movie there
is an onus on audiences to not put
twists and plot beats on a pedestal of
importance to such a degree that they
let these things spoil a movie if these
things spoil a movie then watching the
movie itself spoils the movie you know
what happens doesn't that spoil it for
the second time you watch it why not use
the power of your dollar to support
media that can't be spoiled by a leaked
script hopefully this will put pressure
on Hollywood to begin putting some oomph
back into their narrative impact and
other aspects of the creative process
Dungeons and Dragons shows us that not
having a spoilable Twist doesn't spell
the end of the Blockbuster you can make
fun engaging movies without the
diminishing returns of a surprise twist
even if you all didn't go see it yes I'm
judging you as much as the primary
responsibility should be put on the
corporate production side of Hollywood
to provide us with the kind of quality
that you'd think would be in demand for
the cost of a movie ticket these days
this is a slow moving beast and we are
the ones who have to mobilize and begin
to ask for more
and sometimes I think we forget that we
do have that power
[Music]
it's amazing that people alive today get
to say that we're living through a
golden age for us it seems we're living
in the Golden Age of Television commonly
credited to have begun with Breaking Bad
television and streaming services
especially experienced an unprecedented
creative expansion
of the kinds of content that could be
put on the small screen and in many ways
the big screen was given a run for its
money through not only content but also
the use of newly available high
definition and 4K cameras to introduce
cinematic lighting and dynamic range to
TV from Breaking Bad We got Hannibal
from Hannibal we've now got Interview
with a Vampire who needs Oscar base
nothing exemplified this quite like Game
of Thrones the HBO series adapted from
George RR Martin's game-changing Song of
Ice and Fire book series and nothing
else has ever exemplified just how far a
once in a lifetime television phenomenon
can go out of its way to almost
completely tarnish its reputation
forever and it's because of spoiler
culture when the showrunners ran out of
the source material because Martin takes
so long to write some fans noticed a
marked decrease in writing quality the
pacing picked up too fast the methodical
development was replaced with fan
service payoffs granted many also
thought that at this point they'd earned
some of that but I don't the problem for
everyone else came when it seemed like
fans were beginning to predict how how
the series was going to end up until
then the showrunners had enjoyed a
strong reputation for presenting the
unexpected the book series was famous
for killing off characters who seemingly
should have had plot armor and for
shocking political plots that completely
upset what seemed to be a plot
projection spoiler alert lots of people
die don't get attached but sometimes
they do get resurrected so when fans of
the series began to connect the dots
between certain characters who did end
up having a kind of plot armor it's like
the showrunners didn't know how to
generate tension anymore their solution
just flip the script whenever someone
figured it out I don't know why they
thought this was a solid plan because
fan theories about the books were going
to inevitably bleed over into the
discourse of the series so certain
things were rushed perhaps these events
were meant to happen but didn't happen
the way they should have and it ended up
being that the only real twist was
twisting the plot's arm to guarantee
that expectations would be subverted
rather than being ambivalent to an
expectation and just making good art as
I said for years fans had predicted the
end of Martin's books and he knew it
some of them he claims are a dead match
for his outlines but his response to
that was that he wasn't going to change
his plans because some people had
figured them out Game of Thrones should
be a case study in how something so
culturally lauded can go awry if the
sole purpose is to surprise people and
in the end it certainly was surprisingly
bad because I feel they thought so
little of Their audience that they
expected everyone would be satisfied and
overjoyed Aid
as long as there were twists
a quantity of twists turning points
Revelations Exposition dumps sudden
entrances twins separated at Birth
waking up and it was all a dream and
anything in a plot that can be concealed
from an audience does not a good story
make it's just drama but this is also
just one aspect of the filmmaking
process and to hold a work of media's
quality up to these twists is to
overlook nearly every other aspect of
Creation in film for which people have
dedicated their entire lives to making
these artistic and often unrecognized
contributions to a good movie costumes
sets special effects are just some
examples performances from actors and
the way that specific line readings can
add layers to a character that just
isn't there in the script but also
cinematography Direction choreography
when needed sound editing and
engineering and camera work if learning
a plot beat spoils a whole movie for you
it's spitting in the face of everyone
involved in this and a producer who
builds a whole movie around a single
plot beat is spitting in the face of
these people too you don't have to
reinvent the wheel to make a good movie
or series
the best thing to surprise your audience
with is love and care for the content
you produce
you know exactly how it's going to end
because they read the book or they
played the game
an amazing storytelling Journey isn't
about what shocks you
but what makes you care
and
that is what happened with The Last of
Us
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]